A global variable is a variable that is defined in the data segment of a .ask file and can be accessed
by all procedures that are within that file.
When you write a procedure you want that procedure to be self contained.

Think about how the writeString and writeInt procedures work for a second

The writeString procedure has no idea what you or anyone else are going to name their variables.
What is done in the case of writeString is that the offset of an array Is placed into the edx register
and the procedure is called
The writeString procedure expects the information to be written to the screen to be in the edx
register

If it is not then the procedure will not work. The writeString procedure only works if it is called
properly. It has no access to the names of the variables you have created in your data segment

Coupling and cohesion
When writing procedures there are two things should you strive to achieve
1. Your procedure should be loosely coupled
2. Your procedure should be highly cohesive

Coupling refers to how tightly integrated your code is into your program.
Ideally you want your code to be as portable as possible so that you can use it in other programs.
If a function is too dependent on the program it was written in, it can can’t be easily used else where

Cohesion has to do with how many things your code does. Ideally you want your functions to do
one thing and one thing only

1. Coupling is how many different files/procedures are in your code (how integrated your code is
for your program)
2. Cohesion is how many fucntions your code is (cohesive like water)

If you are using registers in your procedure, then it is important that you save and restore all the
register back to the state they were in before the procedure was called.
Of course if the answer is in one of the registers to be modified . Not restoring the registers could
have and adverse affect on the procedure calling your procedure.

Empty out the registers after your procedure (restore the registers back to what they were before the
procedure is called)

The pushad and popad instructions push all of the 32 bit general registers on the stack. The pushed
instruction pushes the registers in the following order

EAX, ECX, EDX, EBX, ESP

Ex::

MyProc PROC
PUSHAD

POPAD
Ret

MyProc ENDP
