ESI and EDI are for high speed data transfers

ESI is the source index
The edi is the destination index

Use the ESI and EDI makes them ideal for memory addresses,

Your options to move the cursor to the biginning of the next line are to use the writeLine which adds
a new line to the end of the output or endl which outputs a new line to the console window. You can
simply add a carriage return line-feed pair to the end of the string. This is actually 2 characters

0dh ;carriage return
0ah ;line feed

String primitive instructions

Instruction description
MOVSB, MOVSW, MOVSD Move string data. Copy data from memeory
addressed by ESI to memory addressed by edi

CMPSB, CMPSW, CMPSD compare strings. Compare the contents of two

memory locations addressed by ESI and EDI

SCASB, SCASW, SCASD scan string. Compare the accumulator (al, ax, eax) to
the contents of the memory addressed by the edi

STOSB, STOSW, STOSD store string data. Store the accumulator contents.
into the memory addressed by EDI

LODSB, LODSW, LODSD load accumulator from string. Load memory
addressed by ESI into the accumulator

The repeat prefix
The above string primitive instructions process only a single memory value or pair of values. If you
add one of the repeat prefixes you can process and entire array using a single instruction. The
repeat prefixes use the ECX register as a counter to determine the number of times to repeat.

Repeat prefix

Instruction description
REP repeat while the ECX > 0
REPZ, REPE repeat while the zero flag is set and the ECX > 0
REPNZ, REPNE repeat while the zero flag is clear and the ECX > 0

The direction flag
The value of the direction flag has an impact on the direction of the repeat instruction. You can set
and store the direction flag using STD and CLD

CLD - clear the direction flag. The repeat instruction increments (forward direction) . Address
sequence goes from low to high

STD - set the direction flag. The repeat instruction decrements (reverse direction) .
Address equine goes from high to low

Copying a string
We can use the movsb instruction to easily copy a string from one location to another.
1. Load ESI with offset of string to copy from
2. Load EDI with offset of string to copy to
3. Mov number of character to copy into ECX
4. Clear the direction flag for forward copy
5. Call rep movsb
